ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

We have limited licensing revenues to date and we have made no provision for any contingency, unexpected expenses or increases in costs that may arise.

We have received only limited licensing revenues from operations to date. We have generated operational funding in fiscal 2022 from private debt and equity offerings to use for operating expenses or research and development. Since inception, we have been able to cover our operating losses from debt and equity financing. These sources of funds may not be available to cover future operating losses. If we are not able to obtain adequate sources of funds to operate our business we may not be able to continue as a going concern.

Our business strategy and plans could be adversely affected in the event we need additional financing and are unable to obtain such funding when needed. It is possible that our available funds may not be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, development plans, and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Insufficient funds may prevent us from implementing our business strategy or may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain opportunities for the commercialization of our technology. If we cannot obtain necessary funding, then we may be forced to cease operations.

We may experience delays in resolving unexpected technical issues arising from the design of commercial units that will increase development costs and make the economics unattractive.

As we develop, refine and implement our technology on a commercial basis, we may have to solve technical, manufacturing and/or equipment-related issues. Some of these issues are ones that we cannot anticipate because the technology we are developing is new. If we must revise existing manufacturing processes or order specialized equipment to address a particular issue, we may not meet our projected timetable for bringing commercial operations on line. Such delays may interfere with our projected operating schedules, delay our receipt of licensing and royalty revenues from operations and decrease royalties from operations. Enhanced commercial designs are underway.

The market in which we are attempting to sell our technology is highly competitive and may attract significant additional research and development in coming years.

The market for our technology may become highly competitive on a global basis, with a number of competitors gaining significantly greater resources and greater market share than us. Because of greater resources and more widely accepted brand names, many of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in the markets we have targeted or devote greater resources to the development and sale of new technology products. Our ability to compete is dependent on our emerging technology that may take some time to develop market acceptance. To improve our competitive position, we may need to make significant ongoing investments in service and support, marketing, sales, research and development and intellectual property protection. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or to secure a competitive position within the market we target.

Our business depends on the protection of our patents and other intellectual property and may suffer if we are unable to adequately protect such intellectual property.

Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our intellectual property. We rely on patent laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. There are events that are outside of our control that pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as to our products and services. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we license our technology. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies designed around any patents that may be issued to us.

We have been granted several global patents and have several patents applications pending as noted in the table above. Our ability to license our technology is substantially dependent on the validity and enforcement of these patents and patents pending. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that patents will be issued for our patents pending, that the rights granted under the patents will provide us competitive advantages or that our current and future patent applications will be granted.

11

* * *
Third parties may invalidate our patents.

Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us based on, among other things:

• subsequently discovered prior art;

• lack of entitlement to the priority of an earlier, related application; or

• failure to comply with the written description, best mode, enablement or other applicable requirements.

United States patent law requires that a patent must disclose the “best mode” of creating and using the invention covered by a patent. If the inventor of a patent knows of a better way, or “best mode,” to create the invention and fails to disclose it, that failure could result in the loss of patent rights. Our decision to protect certain elements of our proprietary technologies as trade secrets and to not disclose such technologies in patent applications, may serve as a basis for third parties to challenge and ultimately invalidate certain of our related patents based on a failure to disclose the best mode of creating and using the invention claimed in the applicable patent. If a third party is successful in challenging the validity of our patents, our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business.

We may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others.

Our technology may be the subject of claims of intellectual property infringement in the future. Our technology may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, could divert resources and attention and could require us to obtain a license to use the intellectual property of third parties. We may be unable to obtain licenses from these third parties on favorable terms, if at all. Even if a license is available, we may have to pay substantial royalties to obtain it. If we cannot defend such claims or obtain necessary licenses on reasonable terms, we may be precluded from offering most or all of technology and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.

Our ability to execute our business plan would be harmed if we are unable to retain or attract key personnel.

Our technology is being marketed by a small number of the members of our management. Our technology is being developed and refined by a small number of technical consultants. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to retain and attract the services of these and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our management team or our technical consultants could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. We do not carry key person insurance for our officers.

Overseas development of our business is subject to international risks, which could adversely affect our ability to license profitable overseas plants.

We believe a significant portion of the growth opportunity for our business lies outside the United States. Doing business in foreign countries may expose us to many risks that are not present domestically. We lack significant experience in dealing with such risks, including political, military, privatization, technology piracy, currency exchange and repatriation risks, and higher credit risks associated with customers. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to enforce legal obligations in foreign countries, and we may be at a disadvantage in any legal proceeding within the local jurisdiction. Local laws may also limit our ability to hold a majority interest in the projects that we develop. The Company has yet to establish any representation offices outside the United States.

We do not know if coal processed using our technology is commercially viable.

We do not yet know whether coal processed using our technology can be produced and sold on a commercial basis in a cost effective manner after taking into account the cost of the feedstock, processing costs, license and royalty fees and the costs of transportation. Because we have not experienced any full scale commercial operations, we have not yet developed a guaranteed efficient cost structure. Initial indications show commercial viability. We are currently using the estimates for anticipated pricing and costs, as well as the qualities of the coal processed in the laboratory and our test facility at AES setting to make such estimates. We may experience technical problems that could make the processed coal more expensive than anticipated. Failure to address both known and unforeseen technical challenges may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Initial indications based on actual test results show a positive impact on the quality of the processed coal and based on current prices appear economically attractive.

12

* * *
We have experienced large net losses, have little liquidity and need to obtain funds for operations or we may not be able to continue.

We have incurred net losses since inception. The net losses to date include large non-cash expenses recorded for share-based compensation for consultants and officer compensation. However, in addition to the non-cash expenses, we had other operating expenses, funded in large part through loans from existing shareholders. In order to meet our current operating budget and anticipated contractual obligations, we estimate that we will need an additional $5,000,000 for 2023 based on our current contractual obligations. At December 31, 2022, we had no cash and total liabilities of $31,482,738. If we cannot obtain adequate financing from new funding sources, we will be unable to continue operations or meet our contractual obligations.

Our use of equity as an alternative to cash compensation may cause excessive dilution for our current shareholders.

Due to shortage of operating funds and low liquidity, we have issued shares as compensation for services, including board and officer compensation as well as compensation for outside consultants and other services. This form of compensation has enabled us to obtain services that would not otherwise have been available to us but it has resulted in dilution to our shareholders. Unless we are able to obtain adequate financing in the immediate future, we may be forced to continue to obtain services through the issuance of shares and warrants, resulting in additional dilution to shareholders and potentially adversely affecting any return on investment.

Due to the uncertain commercial acceptance of coal processed using our technology we may not be able to realize significant licensing revenues.

While we strongly believe that a commercial market is developing both domestically and internationally for cleaner coal products such as coal processed using our technology, we may face the following risks due to the developing market for cleaner coal technology:

\- limited pricing information;

\- changes in the price differential between low- and high-BTU coal;

\- unknown costs and methods of transportation to bring processed coal to market;

\- alternative fuel supplies available at a lower price;

\- the cost and availability of emissions-reducing equipment or competing technologies; failure of governments to implement and enforce new environmental standards; and

\- a decline in energy prices which could make processed coal less price competitive.

If we are unable to develop markets for our processed coal, our ability to generate revenues and profits will be negatively impacted.

If we are unable to successfully construct and commercialize production plants, our ability to generate profits from our technology will be impaired.

Our future success depends on our ability to secure partners to locate, develop and construct future commercial production plants and operate them at a profit. A number of different variables, risks and uncertainties affect such commercialization including:

\- the complex, lengthy and costly regulatory permit and approval process;

\- potential local opposition to development of projects, which can increase cost and delay timelines;

\- increases in construction costs such as for contractors, workers and raw materials;

\- transportation costs and availability of transportation;

\- the inability to acquire adequate amounts of low rank feedstock coal at forecasted prices to meet projected goals;

\- availability of suitable consumers of chemical by-product produced by our process;

\- engineering, operational and technical difficulties; and

\- possible price fluctuations of low-Btu coal which could impact profitability.

If we are unable to successfully address these risks, our results from operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected.

13

* * *
Future changes in the law may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services.

A significant factor in expanding the potential U.S. market for coal processed using our technology is the numerous federal, state and local environmental regulations, which provide various air emission requirements for power generating facilities and industrial coal users. The Trump Administration revoked a number of regulations and restrictions which had an adverse impact on the market for our products and services, however, under the current Biden Administration it remains unclear what regulations will be re-imposed.

Covid-19 had a negative impact on our funding ability through 2022. There is no assurance that future funding requirements will not be impacted by the continuation of this pandemic.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES