ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company (formerly Live Oak Acquisition Corp.) was incorporated in Delaware on May 24, 2019 as a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC, formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization, or similar business combination with one or more businesses. Live Oak completed its initial public offering in May 2020. On December 29, 2020 (“Closing Date”), the Company consummated a business combination (“Business Combination”), pursuant to which the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Meredian Holdings Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Meredian Holdings Group” or “MHG”) through the exchange of MHG common stock for Live Oak Class A common stock. The Business Combination was effected through the merger of Green Merger Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Live Oak, with and into MHG, with MHG surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Live Oak.

In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, the Company changed its name from Live Oak Acquisition Corp. to Danimer Scientific, Inc.

The following description of our business describes the business historically operated by Meredian Holdings Group and its subsidiaries under the “Danimer Scientific” name as an independent enterprise prior to the Business Combination (“Legacy Danimer”) and which will be operated by the Company after the Business Combination.

Our principal operating subsidiaries are Meredian, Inc., Danimer Scientific, L.L.C, Danimer Scientific Kentucky, Inc., and Novomer, Inc.

Overview

We are a performance polymer company specializing in bioplastic replacements for traditional petroleum-based plastics. Applications for biopolymers include additives, aqueous coatings, fibers, filaments, films, thermoforming, and injection-molded articles. We bring together innovative technologies to deliver biodegradable bioplastic materials to global consumer product companies. We believe that we are the only commercial company in the bioplastics market to combine the production of a base polymer along with the reactive extrusion capacity in order to give customers a “drop-in” replacement for a wide variety of petroleum-based plastics.

We have core competencies in polymer formulation and application development, fermentation process engineering, thermocatalysis, chemical engineering and polymer science. In addition, we have created an extensive intellectual property portfolio to protect our innovations that together with our technology, serves as a valuable foundation for our business and for future industry collaborations. We primarily market our products to consumer packaging brand owners, converters and manufacturers in the plastics industry seeking to address environmental, public health, renewability, composting and biodegradability concerns arising from customer perceptions and expectations, government regulations, or other reasons.

Our fermentation process uses sustainably-sourced canola oil. Our proprietary extraction and extrusion processes are cost competitive and leave almost no carbon footprint. Our customized formulations enable us to team up with other makers of biobased products to create an even wider range of goods. We anticipate our scalable production capacity and modular manufacturing model will soon enable us to serve an increasingly large customer base.

2

* * *

We believe we are a leader in the bioplastics industry as evidenced by:

•

Our over 18-year corporate history; 

•

Our combined portfolio of over 480 patents and pending patent applications worldwide in more than 20 countries for a range of manufacturing processes and biopolymer formulations;

•

Our collaboration, development and supply agreements with some of the largest consumer packaged goods companies; and

•

Numerous awards won, including PLASTICS Industry Association’s 2018 and 2020 Innovation in Bioplastics award.

Our Technologies

PHA-based Resins: Polyhydroxyalkanoate (“PHA”) is a naturally occurring bioplastic that effectively biodegrades in both anaerobic environments, such as a waste treatment facility, and aerobic environments, such as industrial compost, home compost, soil, fresh water and seawater. PHA will degrade in any environment in which microbes or fungi are present, without the presence of additional heat or moisture. This ease of degradation, as compared with industrial composting facilities, creates numerous options for companies that use plastics as part of their business.

We currently produce PHA in a fermentation process in which bacteria consume vegetable oil and produce PHA within their cell membranes as energy reserves. We harvest the PHA from the bacteria, then purify and filter the bioplastic before forming the non-formulated (“neat”) PHA into pellets, which we combine with other inputs using a reactive extrusion process to manufacture formulated finished products with a diverse array of properties. We sell this neat PHA under our proprietary Nodax® brand name.

PHAs are also desirable as a biodegradable replacement for petroleum-based plastics since converters (manufacturers that turn plastic resin into finished products) do not have to purchase new equipment to switch to our material. Utilizing PHA as a base resin significantly expands the number of potential applications for bioplastics in the industry.

PLA-based Resins: Polylactic acid (“PLA”) is made from dextrose derived from corn, sugar beets and sugar cane, among others. It is “industrially compostable” as per ASTM D6400 standards, which require a plastic to aerobically compost in a municipal industrial facility within 180 days. PLA requires additional heat and moisture to begin degrading by hydrolysis, which is why it is certified for industrial composting only.

Since 2004, we have been producing proprietary plastics using PLA as a base resin. We purchase neat PLA and formulate it into bioplastic applications by leveraging the expertise of our chemists and our proprietary reactive extrusion process. Our formulated PLA-based products allow many companies to use renewable and compostable plastics to meet their customers’ growing sustainability needs. We are a pioneer in bioplastics technology, demonstrated by early successes such as creating a bioplastic suitable for coating disposable paper cups to withstand the temperatures of hot liquids such as coffee. We have two primary manufacturing platforms: reactive extrusion and polymer synthesis. In reactive extrusion, new polymers are made by combining PLA with other plant-based materials, minerals, or other inputs to be able to meet the needs of customers that cannot use non-formulated neat PLA. In polymer synthesis, new proprietary polymers are made in reactors (vertical tanks with ability to control pressure, heat, agitation, pH, etc.) and then pelletized. Our PLA-based biopolymers are formulated to meet the compostability requirements for ASTM International and European (EN) standards.

Rinnovo: Following the 2021 acquisition of Novomer, Inc. (incorporated into our business as Danimer Catalytic Technologies), we also have the technology to produce a type of PHA, specifically poly(3-hydroxypropionate) (“p3HP”), through a proprietary thermal catalytic conversion process at a lower cost than our fermentation process. We also refer to p3HP by its brand name, Rinnovo®. We believe that this technology will enhance the strength of product applications we develop due to the complementary nature of Rinnovo when combined with Nodax and enable us to increase the expected overall volume of finished product we will be able to deliver, all while significantly lowering our production costs and capital expenditure per pound produced.

The Plastics Market and Competitive Landscape

The plastics market is large with many established players. The market has grown around the chemical processing of oil and natural gas and is concentrated in the conventional, non-biodegradable petroleum-based segment.

Established companies in this segment include The Dow Chemical Company, E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company, BASF Corporation, INEOS USA LLC, LyondellBasell Industries N.V., Saudi Basic Industries Corporation and

3

* * *

Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, among many others. The price of conventional petroleum-based plastic is volatile, as it is dependent on petroleum as a key manufacturing input. In addition, the non-biodegradability of conventional petroleum-based plastics makes them persistent in and harmful to the environment and creates significant waste.

Competitive companies that produce bioplastics include Kaneka Corporation, which produces 3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyhexanoate, Novamont S.p.A., which produces polybutylene adipate terephthalate and CJ CheilJedang Corporation.

Our Nodax-based biopolymers offer a broad range of properties and processing options and can address a large portion of the opportunities for environmentally attractive yet functionally equivalent alternatives to conventional petroleum-based plastics. Unlike PLA and most starch-based composite biodegradables, PHA biopolymers can:

•

biodegrade in natural soil and water environments, including the marine environment;

•

remain functional through a wide range of temperatures; and

•

withstand everyday use without breaking down.

Market Opportunity

Globally, over 800 billion pounds of plastic are produced each year. We believe that both PHA and PLA are excellent replacements for commercial plastics created with synthetic polymers derived from petroleum. We believe that PHA is a competitive replacement for polypropylene, polyethylene, polystyrene, and polyethylene terephthalate plastics. These plastics represent over 63% of traditional petroleum-based plastic worldwide, so we believe there is potential for PHAs to replace over 500 billion pounds of plastic applications annually.

Bioplastics are a key segment of the plastics industry and provide renewably-sourced products, which are compostable or biodegradable replacements for traditional petroleum-based plastics. Bioplastics are used in a wide range of applications, including packaging, adhesives, food additives, food service items and many others. The bioplastics industry is diverse and rapidly evolving. As companies continue to innovate new bioplastic products to meet existing and future customer needs, we expect the industry to expand substantially.

Environmental: Opportunities arising from the plastics industry’s negative environmental impacts include a demand for an alternative of more products and packaging using sustainable, renewable, and non-petroleum resources. Additionally, we believe there is heightened demand for biodegradable and compostable materials, as well as materials that facilitate greater safety for the public and the environment. A 2021 global sustainability study by Simon Kucher found 85% of consumers in global markets have shifted their purchase behaviors toward sustainability. In light of this sentiment, companies are looking for ways to divert landfill waste and environmental waste with the use of bioplastics. With the “end of life” scenarios that bioplastics provide, these companies are now testing new materials to be more proactive in reducing the global pollution problem.

Public Health: Manufacturers of products that are used for food packaging or food services may place priority on the development of bioplastics that eliminate the potentially negative health effects of petroleum-based plastics. While not yet conclusive, some scientific research suggests that polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, and many other traditional plastics may be linked to certain cancers, endocrine disruptions, digestive dysfunctions, impaired immune function, and other serious health issues. We believe that this perception of traditional plastics, especially in food contact applications, is driving numerous product manufacturers toward the use of non-petroleum-based plastics.

Renewability: Some manufacturers place a greater emphasis on renewability rather than biodegradability or compostability of materials. In Europe, we believe many manufacturers place higher priority on renewability because of consumer perceptions and governmental regulations. While our use of canola oil as a feedstock instead of petroleum is an advantage in terms of renewability, we currently focus on biodegradability in the U.S. market.

Certification: The certification of materials in the bioplastics industry is based upon third-party standards that establish criteria for labeling materials and products. Certifications are important to brand owners and consumers as they give assurance that materials have been rigorously tested and vetted. As certifications are achieved for our products, we and our customers are authorized to utilize labels indicating the bioplastic meets certification guidelines, which we believe give consumers greater confidence in our products.

4

* * *

Business Strategy

Our goal is to build a commercially successful bioplastic manufacturing business, with attractive margins, based on the unique properties of our PHA and PLA biopolymers and our application development expertise. To achieve this goal, we are developing and commercializing biopolymers in a range of applications, including films, straws and containers. We believe this will provide an attractive base of commercial opportunities for Danimer, creating value for our business and our customers and generating leading intellectual property positions in the field.

Our strategy consists of six mutually supporting elements:

Expand Capacity to Achieve Scale: In order to reach our goals, we must be able to produce our products on a large scale. This will initially be accomplished by organic capacity growth. This includes the recent completion of the Phase II expansion at our Winchester, Kentucky Facility, and construction of a new PHA plant in Bainbridge, Georgia, as well as a Rinnovo pilot plant and the development of plans for a commercial Rinnovo plant. In addition, we have entered into a third-party licensing agreement to expand our effective capacity and reach additional markets, and we will continue to explore licensing and manufacturing agreements.

Lead with Innovation to Address a Broad Range of Customer Needs: We will continue to leverage our core competencies of polymer formulation and application development to increase the commercial uses for our products. This will include seeking to increase research and development contracts with global consumer products companies and additional opportunities for technology licensing.

Grow Customer Partnerships and Product Volume Commitments: We will continue to negotiate development and supply agreements with global blue-chip customers to secure demand for future capacity expansions and de-risk our capital spend.

Secure Cost-Effective Inputs: Our key manufacturing inputs are commodity products, including canola oil as the primary feedstock for our PHA fermentation process, and we seek to secure these inputs at reasonable prices through long-term agreements and partnership arrangements to ensure we have adequate, cost-effective volumes to support our production requirements. We also continue to explore the viability of alternative feedstocks to improve our flexibility to pursue lower-cost alternatives that may arise.

Attain Favorable Unit Economics to Enhance Margins: To drive competitive pricing and margin improvement, we seek to reduce our unit production costs by increasing our capacity utilization across our fixed cost base, blending in larger amounts of lower cost input materials, such as Rinnovo, and developing more cost-effective manufacturing methods.

Enhance Team Capabilities to Support Growth: As a technology-focused company, we continually seek to enhance the knowledge and capabilities of our staff and improve our processes to enhance productivity as our business grows in size and complexity. To this end, we have expanded and broadened the functional skill set of our leadership team and continue to seek to attract and retain scientists and engineers that can build on the foundational research and development work we’ve accomplished to date.

Our Products and Services

We offer the following products and services.

PHA-based Resins: We sell Nodax-based resins for use in a wide variety of plastic applications including films, straws and food containers. They are 100% bio-based and renewably sourced.

Nodax has achieved six TUV AUSTRIA certifications: OK compost INDUSTRIAL, OK compost Home, OK biodegradable SOIL, OK biodegradable Water, OK biodegradable MARINE, and OK biobased. Our Nodax-based biopolymers are formulated to meet the biodegradability requirements for ASTM International and European (EN) standards.

Nodax is also approved for food contact by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other authorities.

5

* * *

PLA-based Resins: PLA in neat form has limited functionality, but when we combine PLA with other plant-based chemicals and minerals through our reactive extrusion process, we can improve PLA-based products’ processability, impact strength, heat tolerance and numerous other attributes to meet customer specifications for a wide range of applications to support petroleum-based plastic replacement. Our ability to formulate PLA in this manner enables us to acquire customers that neat PLA producers cannot.

Research and Development: We have a number of PHA R&D contracts with global consumer products companies, including Bacardi and Mars Wrigley. We collaborate with the R&D staff of each customer on products that are tailored for each customer’s specific applications.

Tolling: We contract with customers to use our existing production facilities and expertise to help customers meet complex raw material opportunities. In 2015, we started making our production facilities and expertise available to tolling customers. There are many companies that toll manufacture in the U.S. for products that are large volumes at low prices.

Customers and Product Applications

We believe we are well-positioned to capture market share with our streamlined and flexible development process. We possess world-class research and development capabilities for new products. Since the inception and commercialization of our first products, a significant portion of our revenues have been generated from the sale of materials utilized in single-use food service articles. While we expect single-use food service articles to remain a significant component of our revenue, we continue to develop new products for many different applications; therefore, our client base is changing along with our product mix.

In 2022, we had two customers that each individually accounted for more than 10% of revenue and collectively represented 40% of total revenue. In 2021, we had two customers that each individually accounted for more than 10% of revenue and collectively represented 35% of total revenue.

PHA Products: We have successfully executed multiple contracts for the development and production of Nodax-based resins. Some of our current customers and their product applications using PHA-based resins are below:

•

PepsiCo — In December 2016, we and PepsiCo, Inc. entered into a joint development agreement that provides for the development of our biodegradable film resins to meet the packaging requirements of PepsiCo’s global food and beverage business, including compostable films to be used in Frito Lay chip bags.

•

Mars Wrigley — In March 2021, we and Mars, Incorporated (“Mars Wrigley”) signed an extensive R&D contract to work on films for their candy/food packaging. Mars Wrigley expects to launch a home compostable packaging for their Skittles brand in 2023.

•

Bacardi — In October 2020, we and Bacardi Limited entered into an agreement with the goal to eliminate 3,000 annual tons of petrochemical plastic currently produced by Bacardi. The 100% biodegradable bottle under development could replace 80 million plastic bottles per year, as Bacardi's goal is to be petrochemical plastic free by 2030.

•

Genpak — In November 2019, we and Genpak, LLC entered into a multi-year agreement under which we will deliver biodegradable resins that Genpak will use exclusively for the manufacture of its new GenZero™ line of food packaging products. Genpak’s line of foodservice items are designed for a wide range of applications, including to-go hinged food containers, plates, bowls, and platters, serving trays and two-piece food containers. We understand that Genpak plans to launch Nodax-based home compostable take-out containers by the end of 2023.

•

WinCup — In September 2019, WinCup Plastics, Inc., a leading manufacturer of disposable foodservice to-go-ware, announced the launching of phade®, a new line of straws and stirrers made from Nodax-based resins. We and WinCup have entered into a commercial supply contract for PHA currently being produced in our Kentucky Facility.

•

UrthPact — In October 2019, we and UrthPact, LLC, a long-time customer of ours for PLA-based resins for use in single-serve coffee pods, entered into an agreement providing for the Nodax-based resins for the manufacture of straws. In addition, UrthPact also signed a contract with us to produce PHA-based resin for single serve coffee pods.

6

* * *

•

Eagle Beverage and Accessory Products (“Eagle Beverage”) — In September 2020, Eagle Beverage, a leading manufacturer of drinking straws, signed a commercial supply contract with us to purchase straw resin. In May 2021, Danimer and Eagle Beverage signed an amendment to the supply contract for additional volumes. Their customers include large brands within the food and beverage industry.

•

Columbia Packaging Group (“CPG”) — In November 2019, CPG, a large producer of flexible films signed a supply agreement for the purchase of our PHA film resins. In September 2020, CPG added additional volume for our PHA film resins. Due to this early success and our partnership, CPG signed a supply agreement to purchase straw resin.

PLA Products: Some of our current customers’ product applications using PLA-based resins are below:

•

Drinking cups that are coated with our compostable extrusion coating resin.

•

Shrink wrap films for various food packaging.

•

Cutlery.

Raw Materials and Suppliers

Our operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis, in particular canola oil, PLA, polybutylene succinate (“PBS”), and polybutylene adipate terephthalate (“PBAT”). Although certain of these raw materials have limited sources of supply, we have developed strategic relationships with key suppliers for these products and generally have commitments or contracts from these suppliers to meet current and projected needs. We buy PLA from NatureWorks LLC and Total Corbion, PBS from PTT MCC Biochem Co., Ltd and PBAT from BASF Corporation. Commodities such as canola oil are readily available from numerous suppliers. Accordingly, we believe that we will be able to procure the necessary quantity and quality of raw materials needed to manufacture our products.

Intellectual Property and Technology

Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property, and we rely on a combination of patents, know-how, trade secrets, non-disclosure agreements and supply chain partnerships to establish and protect our intellectual property.

We hold a combination of over 480 patents and pending patent applications worldwide in more than 20 countries. Our extensive patent portfolio covers the fundamental biotechnology needed to produce our PHA biopolymers as well as biopolymer compositions, processes, derived products, and applications. Our patents also include those associated with Danimer Catalytic Technologies, including catalyst syntheses, catalyst carbonylation, polymerization, and thermolysis and other related areas.

We also hold patents addressing the conversion of PHA into articles such as diapers, feminine hygiene products, films, fibers, and molded articles, which protect our technology all the way to the “store shelf”. In addition, we hold patents and/or applications in areas as diverse as production systems, additives for bioplastics and unique specialty applications such as the use of materials in the oil and gas industry.

The terms of such patents are set to expire at various times between 2023 and 2040, and any patents resulting from such pending patent applications are expected to have a duration that will expire between 2036 and 2042. Our technology is also protected by maintaining trade secret and know-how status for key technology. In addition, non-disclosure agreements with customers and research partners help to keep our technology proprietary.

We purchased the intellectual property portfolio that formed the basis of our original PHA technology platform from The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”). After a global offering of the technology to competent entities, P&G determined that our expertise and demonstrated success offered the highest probability of successful commercialization. P&G retained a royalty interest equal to $0.05 per pound of PHA produced up to 500,000,000 pounds and $0.025 per pound over 500,000,000 pounds. The royalty term expires September 8, 2027, unless earlier terminated.

Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities. In order to research, develop, and manufacture products for our customers and ultimately for consumer use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and standards established by various regulatory bodies. Compliance with these standards is complex, and failure to comply with any applicable standards can result in significant consequences.

7

* * *

Nodax has been cleared for use in food-contact applications by the FDA and is also contained on positive lists for food-contact in the European Union and Japan. This has allowed our biopolymers to be used in certain food packaging applications such as PHA-coated paper cups and drinking straws. We are in the process of seeking further regulatory approvals necessary to sell and produce our products based on local requirements in various jurisdictions worldwide, and we are prepared to seek additional such approvals as may become necessary in the ordinary course of business.

Biobased and Biodegradability Certification

Our biopolymers have the advantage in the marketplace of being both biobased and biodegradable while having comparable functional properties to petroleum-based polymers. Our products may be certified for both biodegradability and composting. We obtain such certifications from recognized certifying bodies for our base products. As customers purchase product for a specific use, the customer typically obtains an updated certification covering the customer’s manufacturing specifications.

Human Capital

As of December 31, 2022, we had 271 total employees located in the United States and Europe. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe we have a good relationship with our employees.

We believe our employees are our greatest asset, and we seek to provide a safe, inclusive, high-performance culture where our people thrive. We strive to recruit, develop, engage, train and protect our workforce. The following are key human capital measures and objectives on which we currently focus.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”)

A critical part of our recruiting strategy is partnering with colleges and universities to create awareness of career opportunities in our field and develop a strong pipeline of early career professionals, particularly women and other underrepresented groups in science and engineering. While recruitment is our current greatest focus for DEI, we intend to deepen our efforts through training, mentorship and career development opportunities.

Employee Engagement and Training

We strive to foster a fulfilling and positive work environment for our employees. We offer competitive salaries and benefits to both full time employees and contractors, which include health insurance, life insurance, long-term disability, 401(k) matching, employee stock purchase plan, paid vacation and paid time off. Education and continuous learning are particularly important in our evolving industry, and we encourage our employees to pursue professional development and relevant training opportunities.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS