Item 1A. Risk Factors

Exponent operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those mentioned elsewhere in this report and those set forth below. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated.

Risks Related to Our Clients and Demand for Our Services

The unpredictable and reactive nature of our business can create uneven performance in any given quarter or year.

Revenues are primarily derived from services provided in response to client requests or events that occur without notice, and engagements, generally billed as services are performed, are terminable or subject to postponement or delay at any time by clients. As a result, backlog at any particular time is small in relation to our quarterly or annual revenues and is not a reliable indicator of revenues for any future periods. Revenues and operating margins for any particular quarter are generally affected by staffing mix, resource requirements and timing and size of engagements.

Our financial results could suffer if our clients’ needs change more rapidly than we are able to secure the appropriate mix of trained, skilled and experienced personnel.

As our clients’ needs change, new technologies develop, and legal and regulatory processes change, we may be unable to timely hire or train personnel with the appropriate new set of skills and experience which could negatively impact our growth and profitability.

We may not manage our growth effectively, and our profitability may suffer.

Our expected future growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to continue to improve our information systems and other internal systems and controls. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain both our management and professional employees. The inability to effectively manage growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business.

The loss of a large client could adversely affect our business.

We currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the chemical, construction, consumer products, energy, life sciences and transportation industries. The loss of any large client could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our clients may be unable to pay for our services.

If a client's financial difficulties become severe, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable and unbilled services. The recent global economic downturn and increased cost of capital could impact the ability of our customers to pay for our services. On occasion, some of our clients have entered bankruptcy, which has prevented us from collecting amounts owed to us. The bankruptcy of a client with substantial accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Our business is dependent on our professional reputation.

The professional reputation of Exponent and its consultants is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements and attract or retain professionals. Proven or unproven allegations against us may damage our professional reputation. Any factors that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our business can be adversely impacted by deregulation or reduced regulatory enforcement.

Public concern over health, safety and preservation of the environment has resulted in the enactment of a broad range of environmental and/or other laws and regulations by local, state and federal lawmakers and agencies. These laws and the implementation of new regulations affect nearly every industry, as well as the agencies of federal, state and local governments charged with their enforcement. To the extent changes in such laws, regulations and enforcement or other factors significantly reduce the exposures of manufacturers, owners, service providers and others to liability, the demand for our services may be significantly reduced.

16

* * *

Tort reform can reduce demand for our services.

Several of our practices have a significant concentration in litigation support consulting services. To the extent tort reform reduces the exposure of manufacturers, owners, service providers and others to liability, the demand for our litigation support consulting services may be significantly reduced.

Potential conflicts of interest may preclude us from accepting some engagements.

We provide litigation support consulting and other services primarily in connection with significant disputes, or other matters that are usually adversarial or that involve sensitive client information. The nature of our consulting services has and will continue to preclude us from accepting engagements with other potential clients because of conflicts. Accordingly, the nature of our business limits the number of both potential clients and potential engagements.

Inherent risks related to government contracts may adversely affect our business.

We work for various United States and foreign governmental entities and agencies. Government entities reserve the right to audit our contracts and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. Findings from an audit may result in fees being refunded to the government or prospective adjustment to previously agreed upon rates that will affect future margins. If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of the government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of the adequacy of such controls. Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other commercial contracts. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of whether it is accurate, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts.

Governments may terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at any time prior to their completion.

Under our government contracts, the client generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at its convenience. Any decision by the client not to exercise contract options or to terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenues, revenue growth and profitability.

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have affected our operations and those of our clients. The duration and extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our future financial condition and results of operations remains uncertain.

The occurrence of regional epidemics or a global pandemic, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our operations have also been and may in the future be negatively affected by a range of external factors related to the pandemic that are not within our control, including the emergence and spread of more transmissible variants. The COVID-19 pandemic and the various responses to it created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption. We cannot predict the future impacts of this ongoing and any new pandemic(s), including: the duration and scope of such pandemic; governmental, business and individuals’ actions that may be taken in response; the effect on our clients’ demand for and ability to pay for our services; disruptions or restrictions on our employees’ ability to work and travel; and any courthouse closures or other legal delays that will negatively impact our litigation support work. Future disruptions arising from the ongoing and any new pandemics could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the potential direct impacts to our business, the global economy may continue to be impacted as a result of the actions taken in response to COVID-19. To the extent that such a weakened global economy impacts our clients’ ability or willingness to pay for our services, we could see our business and results of operations negatively impacted.

Risks Related to Our Operations

Failure to attract and retain key employees may adversely affect our business.

Exponent’s business involves the delivery of professional services and is labor-intensive. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Qualified personnel are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. We cannot provide any assurance that we can continue to attract sufficient numbers of highly qualified technical and managerial personnel and retain existing employees. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience employee turnover. The loss of key managerial employees, business generators or any significant number of employees could have a material adverse impact on our business, including our ability to secure and complete engagements. We rely heavily on our

17

* * *

executive officers, group vice presidents, and practice/office directors to manage our operations. Given the highly specialized nature of our services and the scale of our operations, our executive officers, group vice presidents and practice/office directors must have a thorough understanding of our services and operations, as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage a large organization in diverse geographic locations. We are unable to predict with certainty the impact that leadership transitions and the loss of certain employees in leadership roles may have on our business operations, prospects, financial results, client relationships, or employee retention or morale.

Our engagements may result in professional or other liability.

Our services typically involve difficult engineering and scientific assignments and carry risks of professional and other liability. Many of our engagements involve matters that could have a severe impact on a client's business, cause a client to lose significant amounts of money, or prevent a client from pursuing desirable business opportunities. Accordingly, if a client is dissatisfied with our performance, the client could threaten or bring litigation in order to recover damages or to contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently, disclosed client confidential information, lost or damaged evidence, infringed on patents, were forced to withdraw from a legal matter due to a conflict or otherwise breached our obligations to a client could expose us to significant liabilities to our clients or other third parties or tarnish our reputation.

We are subject to unpredictable risks of litigation.

Although we seek to avoid litigation whenever possible, from time to time we are party to various lawsuits and claims. Disputes may arise, for example, from employment issues, regulatory actions, business acquisitions and real estate and other commercial transactions. There can be no assurances that any lawsuits or claims will be immaterial in the future. Any material lawsuits or claims could adversely affect our business and reputation.

We are subject to security breaches that may disrupt our operations and/or lead to the inability to protect confidential information.

We have experienced, and expect to continue to be subjected to, security breaches and threats, none of which have been material to us to date. Despite the implementation of security and business continuity measures, our information technology infrastructure and networks are vulnerable to electronic breaches of security. Such breaches could lead to disruptions of our operations and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential and/or personal information, which could result in legal claims or proceedings. Our systems and data are protected by a comprehensive Information Security program detailed in our Information Security Management System. Dedicated security, privacy, information governance, and compliance professionals maintain the program with oversight provided by the Board of Directors in conjunction with senior leadership. Our Information Security team conducts risk assessments, performs regular risk reviews, and tracks risks using a documented risk-register process. While we have taken reasonable steps to prevent and mitigate the damage of a security breach by continuously improving our design and coordination of security controls across our business, those steps may not be effective and there can be no assurance that any such steps can be effective against all possible risks.

18

* * *

Failure to protect client and employee data may have an adverse effect on our business.

We manage, utilize, and store sensitive or confidential client and employee data, including personal data and protected health information. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and international laws such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the People’s Republic of China’s Data Security Law. In addition, many states, U.S. federal governmental authorities and non-U.S. jurisdictions have adopted, proposed, or are considering adopting or proposing, additional data security and/or data privacy statutes or regulations. For instance, we may be subject to Federal Trade Commission (FTC) enforcement actions if the FTC has reason to believe we have engaged in unfair or deceptive privacy or data security practices in violation of the FTC Act. There are also new U.S. state privacy laws, including the California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act, and other state laws that set forth comprehensive privacy and security obligations regarding the collection and processing of personal data. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may lead to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, penalties or other regulatory liabilities, such as orders or consent decrees forcing us to modify business practices, and reputational damage or third-party lawsuits for any noncompliance with such laws. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could also be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud, or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and their related revenue in the future.

Our international operations create special risks that could adversely affect our business.

In addition to our offices in the United States, we have a presence in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Ireland, Germany, and Canada, and conduct business in several other countries. We expect to continue to expand globally and our international revenues may account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial, business and legal risks, including cultural and language differences; employment laws and related factors that could result in lower utilization, higher staffing costs, and cyclical fluctuations of utilization and revenues; currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results; burdensome regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; tariffs/trade disputes and other trade barriers; geopolitical risks that could result in an adverse impact to our clients and Exponent, such as cyberattacks; armed conflicts and wars, including the Russia-Ukraine war; managing the risks associated with engagements with foreign officials and governmental agencies, including the risks arising from the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010; managing the risks associated with global privacy and data security laws and regulations including the General Data Protection Regulation in Europe; greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; successful entry and execution in new markets; restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; potentially adverse tax consequences; and other impending legislation that could add additional risks to the business.

Employee or contractor misconduct, or our failure to comply with governmental, regulatory and legal requirements or with our company-wide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and related policies could lead to governmental or legal proceedings that could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.

Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and related policies mandate compliance with applicable laws including anti-bribery, and insider trading. Nonetheless, we cannot assure that our policies, procedures and related training programs will ensure full compliance with all applicable legal requirements. Illegal or improper conduct by our executive officers, directors, employees, independent consultants or contractors, or others who are subject to our policies and procedures could damage our reputation in the U.S. and internationally, which could adversely affect our existing client relationships or adversely affect our ability to attract and retain new clients, or lead to litigation or governmental or regulatory proceedings in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, or could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearances and suspension or debarment from contracting, any or all of which could harm our reputation, reduce our revenue and profits and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions.

19

* * *

Failure to comply with domestic and international export laws could adversely affect our business.

To the extent we export technical services, data and information outside of the locations where we operate, we are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries. A failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines, the denial of export privileges and suspension or debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our business depends on our ability to use and access information systems, and modernize or replace such systems from time to time, and failure to effectively maintain such systems or modernize or replace systems, or difficulties encountered in implementing new or replacement systems could materially adversely affect our business and operations and harm our reputation.

We depend on multiple internal and external information systems for operating our business. We utilize commercially available third-party technology solutions, which in many cases are customized to our business needs. Our information systems may be compromised by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, hackers, catastrophic events, human error and other events, many of which are beyond our control, and are subject to obsolescence and technological changes. If our information systems fail to work properly or otherwise become unavailable, or if we encounter difficulties in integrating new or replacement systems, we may incur substantial time, efforts and costs to repair or replace such systems, or otherwise carry out our operations without the ability to use such systems. Failure of any such information system could result in delays, significant additional costs, incorrect information, failure of internal control and harm to our reputation as well as expose us to regulatory actions and claims any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations and our reputation.

Increases in operating expenses may adversely affect our profitability and margins.

Increases in compensation and related expenses, other operating expenses, general and administrative expenses, and tax expenses due to inflation, supply chain disruptions, labor market conditions, real estate market conditions, geographic conditions, regulatory requirements, or other economic or political factors may adversely affect our profitability and margins. Increases in compensation and related expenses that exceed our bill rate increases, increases in rent when our operating leases expire, increases in compliance costs associated with new regulations, and increases in tax rates would adversely affect our profitability.  


General Risks

Competition could reduce our pricing and adversely affect our business.

The markets for our services are highly competitive. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into our markets and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, additional competition from new entrants into our markets. Competitive pressure could reduce the market acceptance of our services and result in price reductions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We hold substantial investments that could present liquidity risks.

Our cash equivalent portfolio as of December 30, 2022 consisted primarily of obligations of the U.S. Treasury. We follow an established investment policy to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes.

Investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. As of December 30, 2022, we had no impairment charge associated with our investment portfolio relating to such adverse financial market conditions. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has a low risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired.

20

* * *

Impairment of goodwill may require us to record a significant charge to earnings.

On our balance sheet as of December 30, 2022, we have $8,607,000 of goodwill subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow at reporting units, the loss of key employees, changes to the scope of operations of our business or a significant and sustained decline in our stock price could result in goodwill impairment charges. During times of financial market volatility, significant judgment is required to determine the underlying cause of the decline and whether stock price declines are short-term in nature or indicative of an event or change in circumstances.

Impairment of long-lived assets or restructuring activities may require us to record a significant charge to earnings.

Our long-lived assets, including our office, laboratory and warehouse space in Menlo Park, California, our Test and Engineering Center in Phoenix, Arizona, and our office and laboratory facilities in Natick, Massachusetts, are subject to periodic testing for impairment. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow at the asset group level could result in impairment of our long-lived assets. In addition, we have operating lease right-of-use assets for office and laboratory space which are also subject to impairment. Changes in the business environment could lead to changes in the scope of operations of our business. These changes, including the closure of one or more offices, could result in restructuring and/or asset impairment charges.

Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Additionally, the adoption of new or revised accounting principles may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls.

Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions and other adverse changes in general political conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results.

We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in economic and political conditions, both domestically and globally, including unfavorable changes in economic conditions, such as inflation, rising interest rates or a recession, and other events beyond our control, such as economic sanctions, natural disasters, pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, epidemics, political instability, armed conflicts and wars, including the Russia-Ukraine war. Worsening economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the businesses and financial health of many of our clients. As a result, current or potential clients may consolidate or go out of business and thus demand for our services may be reduced significantly.

Our quarterly results may vary.

Variations in our revenues and operating results occur from time to time, as a result of a number of factors, such as the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter, the timing of engagements, the number of working days in a quarter, employee hiring and utilization rates. Because a high percentage of our expenses, particularly personnel and facilities related expenses, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter, a variation in the timing of the initiation or the completion of our client assignments can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter.

The market price of our common stock may be volatile.

Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall. These include the risk factors listed above and below; changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts; future sales of shares of common stock in the public market; market conditions in the industry and economy as a whole; acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; restatement of financial results; and changes in accounting principles or methods. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business.

21

* * *

There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares at all or in any particular amounts.

Our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends since March 2013. Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments, including acquisitions; legal risks; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchase activity could have a negative effect on our stock price.

Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.

We rely on our network infrastructure and certain third-party hosted services to support our operations. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami or other weather event, power loss, telecommunications failure, software or hardware malfunctions, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event that our disaster recovery plans do not adequately address, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt the management of our business operations.

We maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. If any of our third-party insurers fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewable upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits.

Climate change may disrupt our business.

The areas where we conduct business are vulnerable to the effects of climate change. For example, in California, wildfire danger increases the probability of planned power outages which may impact our employees’ abilities to commute to work and to stay connected. Climate-related events, including the increasing frequency of extreme weather events and their impact on critical infrastructure, have the potential to disrupt our business.

22

* * *

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties